- If you want to how to break
through insulin resistance
and lose that belly fat, then
this is the video for you.
(upbeat music)
Make sure to subscribe so I can help you
get your hormones in harmony
and optimize your health.
And don't forget to click the bell,
so you'll be the first
to see my new videos.
Welcome back to the Hormone Healing Show.
Today I'm going to show you
five easy, effective steps
to break through insulin resistance
and lose that belly fat.
Stay with me because the
fifth step is the key.
Remember, insulin resistance means most
of your cells are not
allowing insulin and sugar in
except your belly fat cells.
Remember the insulin
meter from my last video
on insulin resistance?
A simple blood test called hemoglobin A1c
measures how insulin resistant you are.
Insulin resistance is your body's way
of adapting to stress.
But all that insulin and
sugar floating around
in your bloodstream is very inflammatory.
Insulin resistance leads to heart disease,
infertility, even cancer.
If you follow these five
easy hormone healing steps,
you're going to reverse
insulin resistance,
reduce inflammation, and get
your trim waistline back.
Hormone healing step number
one: Move more than you sit.
People who are sedentary
have a much greater risk
for diabetes, heart disease, even cancer.
You need to start moving.
If you're sitting eight
to ten hours a day,
you're going to have
more issues with obesity,
and even inflammation.
So what I want you to do is every hour,
get up for five to ten minutes.
And I don't care what you do.
You can walk, you can jog, jump rope,
dance around, just move.
There was a study that was actually done
on overweight women.
And what they found is
if they had the women exercise ten minutes
three times a day, over a
six month period of time,
versus those women who
exercised 30 minutes
in one fell swoop,
those women who exercised
frequently during the day
lost weight and kept the
weight off much longer,
up to 18 months versus the women
who exercise 30 minutes a day.
Why would that be?
Because when you get
in the habit of moving,
you're going to break
that sedentary position
that you're always in,
and that's going to break
your insulin resistance.
Hormone healing step number
two: Don't eat carbs after dark.
If there is one thing that I
tell my overweight patients
to do is once dusk hits, you should not
eat any carbohydrates.
I mean no sugar, no
starches, no pasta, no bread,
no potatoes, no yams,
no alcohol, no juice,
nothing starchy, nothing sugary.
Why?
Because what are you doing after dark?
Are you exercising?
Probably not.
You're not going to burn those calories,
you're just going to store them.
So if you're going to break
through your insulin resistance,
you got to stop feeding
your body energy foods.
Just proteins and fats, and
vegetables that are not starchy,
those are great.
Insulin resistance is reversed
by the sleep hormone melatonin.
You're not going to give
it a chance to reverse it
if you're storing extra
carbohydrate foods.
Hormone healing step number three:
Go to bed within a few hours of dusk.
One of the biggest things
that you need to do
is to sleep in the dark.
If you stay up too late, you're going
to suppress your melatonin production.
Literally, as soon as
your eyes and your skin
perceives that pink sunset,
your body gets ready
to start making melatonin.
If you're watching television,
if you're on a digital device,
you're going to suppress
that melatonin production.
You need to go to bed
within a few hours of dusk,
so you have a good eight
hours of melatonin production
to reverse your insulin resistance.
I show you how to do this in my
"How to Sleep Naturally" video.
Hormone healing step number
four: Meditate every day.
Meditation has been shown
to reduce inflammation.
Calming your nervous
system through meditation
can help lower stress
hormones, especially cortisol.
Cortisol is the stress
hormone that initially
tells your body to release stored sugar
when it's under stress so you can use it
for the fight-or-flight.
But if the stress does not require energy
for you actually burn,
where is that sugar going?
It's going right to your belly fat.
In my next video I show
you a great meditation
that you can help lower stress hormones,
and reverse your insulin resistance.
Hormone healing step number five:
Raise your metabolism by
supporting your hypothalamus.
Your hypothalamus is
just trying to save you
by storing body fat for the winter.
If your lights are on all the time,
and you eat a lot of carbohydrates,
your hypothalamus thinks
it's perpetual summer.
Summertime is when animals,
mammals particularly,
fatten up for the winter to come.
Our hypothalamus does
the same exact thing.
When you're exposing it
to light all the time,
and when you're eating
lots of carbohydrates,
you gain weight so that
when the days are short,
the nights are long, and there's no food,
you can live off that stored body fat.
But since winter never comes,
we continue to gain fat
all year long.
You need to reverse that metabolic issue.
And the way you do that is by
supporting your hypothalamus.
It needs the right amino
acids and phytonutrients
just like my special hypothalamic blend
found in Genesis Gold.
When your metabolism stays high,
your stress response is low
and your body is fit and lean.
Now you know how to
reverse insulin resistance.
Yet it's not easy to lose
that inflammatory fat
if the rest of your
hormones are out of balance.
So I created the hormone reboot training
for you to discover how to balance insulin
and all your hormones naturally.
It's free.
Just click the link in the
description below this video.
So what's one thing you're going to do
to help reverse your insulin resistance?
Leave your answer in the
comments section below,
and make sure you sign up
for my hormone reboot training.
If this video was helpful,
be sure to subscribe,
share with your friends,
and hit the like button
so I know to make more videos like this.
Thank you for watch--